<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE article PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN"
"dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE" >
<!-- change language only here -->
]>

<article lang="&language;" id="nepomukshell">
  <title>The Nepomuk Shell</title>
  <articleinfo>
    <authorgroup>
      <author>
        <personname>
          <firstname>Sebastian</firstname>
          <surname>Tr&uuml;g</surname>
        </personname>
        <email>trueg@kde.org</email>
      </author>
      <!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
    </authorgroup>

    <date>2010-09-24</date>
    <releaseinfo>1.0.0</releaseinfo>
  </articleinfo>

  <para>The Nepomuk Shell is a developer tool which allows to browse, query, and edit Nepomuk resources. It is intended for debugging purposes only.</para>
  <para>The application has three basic modes: Resource browsing, SPARQL querying, and Resource editing.</para>
  <para>In <guilabel>Browse Resources</guilabel> mode a tree view shows all the available classes/types that are stored in the Nepomuk database (by default only the pimo:Thing subtree is shown. All resource types can be selected via the combo box on top of the type tree). Clicking on a type will query all resources of that type and display them in the left-hand view from where they can be deleted or edited by double clicking on them.</para>
  <para>In SPARQL <guilabel>Query Resources</guilabel> mode one can enter a query in the upper view. On clicking the <guibutton>Query</guibutton> button or using the <keycombo action="simul"><keycap>Ctrl</keycap><keycap>Enter</keycap></keycombo> shortcut the query is executed and the results are shown in the lower view. Again resource nodes can be double clicked to edit them in editing mode.</para>
  <para>All standard prefixes used in the Nepomuk ontologies are supported by default.</para>
  <para>In <guilabel>Edit Resource</guilabel> mode one sees two main views: the properties/relations of the resource and the backlinks. The latter contain all relations that contain the edited resource as an object. As before resources can be double clicked to be edited. In addition literal values can be edited in place. Be aware though that editing literal values in place will not update their creation date. Here it becomes obvious that <application>Nepomukshell</application> is not an end-user tool.</para>
  <para>Above the relations view the statement creation widget allows to easily create new relations by first inserting the property and in a second step the object, ie. a literal or a resource.</para>

</article>
